---------------------------
commencement-speech
------------------------------
I am honored to be with you today at your commencement from one of the finest universities in the world. I never graduated from college. Truth be told, this is the closest I’ve ever gotten to a college graduation. Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That’s it. No big deal. Just three stories.
I dropped out of Reed College after the first 6 months, but then stayed around as a drop-in for another 18 months or so before I really quit. So why did I drop out?
It started before I was born. My biological mother was a young, unwed college graduate student, and she decided to put me up for adoption. She felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates, so everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife. Except that when I popped out they decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl. So my parents, who were on a waiting list, got a call in the middle of the night asking: “We have an unexpected baby boy; do you want him?” They said: “Of course.” My biological mother later found out that my mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated from high school. She refused to sign the final adoption papers. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised that I would someday go to college.
And 17 years later I did go to college. But I naively chose a college that was almost as expensive as Stanford, and all of my working-class parents’ savings were being spent on my college tuition. After six months, I couldn’t see the value in it. I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out. And here I was spending all of the money my parents had saved their entire life. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out OK. It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back it was one of the best decisions I ever made. The minute I dropped out I could stop taking the required classes that didn’t interest me, and begin dropping in on the ones that looked interesting.
It wasn’t all romantic. I didn’t have a dorm room, so I slept on the floor in friends’ rooms, I returned Coke bottles for the 5¢ deposits to buy food with, and I would walk the 7 miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare Krishna temple. I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on. Let me give you one example:
Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country. Throughout the campus every poster, every label on every drawer, was beautifully hand calligraphed. Because I had dropped out and didn’t have to take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. I learned about serif and sans serif typefaces, about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great. It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can’t capture, and I found it fascinating.
None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life. But 10 years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me. And we designed it all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I had never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts. And since Windows just copied the Mac, it’s likely that no personal computer would have them. If I had never dropped out, I would have never dropped in on this calligraphy class, and personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do. Of course it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when I was in college. But it was very, very clear looking backward 10 years later.
Again, you can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backward. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something — your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life.
My second story is about love and loss.
I was lucky — I found what I loved to do early in life. Woz and I started Apple in my parents’ garage when I was 20. We worked hard, and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2 billion company with over 4,000 employees. We had just released our finest creation — the Macintosh — a year earlier, and I had just turned 30. And then I got fired. How can you get fired from a company you started? Well, as Apple grew we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run the company with me, and for the first year or so things went well. But then our visions of the future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling out. When we did, our Board of Directors sided with him. So at 30 I was out. And very publicly out. What had been the focus of my entire adult life was gone, and it was devastating.
I really didn’t know what to do for a few months. I felt that I had let the previous generation of entrepreneurs down — that I had dropped the baton as it was being passed to me. I met with David Packard and Bob Noyce and tried to apologize for screwing up so badly. I was a very public failure, and I even thought about running away from the valley. But something slowly began to dawn on me — I still loved what I did. The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit. I had been rejected, but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over.
I didn’t see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.
During the next five years, I started a company named NeXT, another company named Pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would become my wife. Pixar went on to create the world’s first computer animated feature film, Toy Story, and is now the most successful animation studio in the world. In a remarkable turn of events, Apple bought NeXT, I returned to Apple, and the technology we developed at NeXT is at the heart of Apple’s current renaissance. And Laurene and I have a wonderful family together.
I’m pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn’t been fired from Apple. It was awful tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it. Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don’t lose faith. I’m convinced that the only thing that kept me going was that I loved what I did. You’ve got to find what you love. And that is as true for your work as it is for your lovers. Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. Don’t settle. As with all matters of the heart, you’ll know when you find it. And, like any great relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking until you find it. Don’t settle.
My third story is about death.
When I was 17, I read a quote that went something like: “If you live each day as if it was your last, someday you’ll most certainly be right.” It made an impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: “If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?” And whenever the answer has been “No” for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.
Remembering that I’ll be dead soon is the most important tool I’ve ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything — all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure — these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.
About a year ago I was diagnosed with cancer. I had a scan at 7:30 in the morning, and it clearly showed a tumor on my pancreas. I didn’t even know what a pancreas was. The doctors told me this was almost certainly a type of cancer that is incurable, and that I should expect to live no longer than three to six months. My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor’s code for prepare to die. It means to try to tell your kids everything you thought you’d have the next 10 years to tell them in just a few months. It means to make sure everything is buttoned up so that it will be as easy as possible for your family. It means to say your goodbyes.

I lived with that diagnosis all day. Later that evening I had a biopsy, where they stuck an endoscope down my throat, through my stomach and into my intestines, put a needle into my pancreas and got a few cells from the tumor. I was sedated, but my wife, who was there, told me that when they viewed the cells under a microscope the doctors started crying because it turned out to be a very rare form of pancreatic cancer that is curable with surgery. I had the surgery and I’m fine now.

This was the closest I’ve been to facing death, and I hope it’s the closest I get for a few more decades. Having lived through it, I can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful but purely intellectual concept:

No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don’t want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life. It is Life’s change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new. Right now the new is you, but someday not too long from now, you will gradually become the old and be cleared away. Sorry to be so dramatic, but it is quite true.

Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life. Don’t be trapped by dogma — which is living with the results of other people’s thinking. Don’t let the noise of others’ opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.

When I was young, there was an amazing publication called The Whole Earth Catalog, which was one of the bibles of my generation. It was created by a fellow named Stewart Brand not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it to life with his poetic touch. This was in the late 1960s, before personal computers and desktop publishing, so it was all made with typewriters, scissors and Polaroid cameras. It was sort of like Google in paperback form, 35 years before Google came along: It was idealistic, and overflowing with neat tools and great notions.

Stewart and his team put out several issues of The Whole Earth Catalog, and then when it had run its course, they put out a final issue. It was the mid-1970s, and I was your age. On the back cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning country road, the kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous. Beneath it were the words: “Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.” It was their farewell message as they signed off. Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish. And I have always wished that for myself. And now, as you graduate to begin anew, I wish that for you.


Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.

Thank you all very much.

---------------------------------
-introducing-iphone-
--------------------------------

this is a day
i've been looking forward to for two and
a half years
every once in a while

a revolutionary product comes along

that changes everything

and

apple has been

well first of all one's very fortunate

if you get to work on just one of these

in your career

apple's been very fortunate

it's been able to

introduce a few of these into the world

1984

we introduced the macintosh

it didn't just change apple

it changed the whole computer industry
in 2001

we introduced the first ipod

and

it didn't just

it didn't just change the way we all

listen to music

it changed the entire music industry

well

today

we're introducing

three

revolutionary products of this class

the first one

is a widescreen ipod with touch controls

the second

is a revolutionary mobile phone

and the third

is a breakthrough internet

communications device

so

three things

a widescreen ipod with touch controls

a revolutionary mobile phone

and a breakthrough internet

communications device

an ipod

a phone

and an internet communicator

an

ipod a phone

are you getting it
these are not

three separate devices

this is one device

and we are calling it

iphone

today

today apple is going to reinvent the
phone
and here it is
no

actually here it is but we're going to

leave it there for now

so

before we get into it

let me uh

let me talk about a category of things
the most advanced phones are called
smartphones
so they say
and uh they typically combine a phone

plus some email capability plus they say

it's the internet sort of the baby

internet into one device and they all

have these plastic little keyboards on

them uh and the problem is

that they're not so smart

and they're not so easy to use so

if you kind of make a

you know business school 101 graph with

a smart access and the easy to use

access phones regular cell phones are

kind of right there they're not so smart
and they're you know not so easy to use

but smartphones are definitely a little

smarter but they actually are harder to

use they're really complicated just for

the basic stuff people have a hard time

figuring out how to use them

well we don't want to do either one of

these things

what we want to do is make a leapfrog

product

that is way smarter than any mobile

device has ever been and super easy to

use this is what iphone is
okay

so

we're going to reinvent the phone
now we're going to start

with a revolutionary user interface

is

the result of years of research and

development

and of course it's an interplay of

hardware and software

now

why do we need a revolutionary user

interface i mean here's four smartphones

right motorola q the blackberry palm

treo nokia e62 the usual suspects

and

what's wrong with their user interfaces

well the problem with them is really

sort of in the bottom 40 there

it's it's this stuff right here

they all have these keyboards that are

there whether you need them or not to be

there

and they all have these control buttons

that are fixed in plastic and are the

same for every application well every

application wants a slightly different

user interface a slightly optimized set

of buttons just for it

and what happens if you think of a great

idea six months from now you can't run

around and add a button to these things

they're already shipped

so what do you do

it doesn't work because the buttons and

the controls can't change they can't

change for each application and they

can't change

down the road if you think of another

great idea you want to add to this

product

well how do you solve this

it turns out we have solved it we solved

it in computers 20 years ago

we solved it with a bitmap screen

that could display anything we want put

any user interface up

and a pointing device we solved it with
the mouse

right

we solved this problem so how are we

going to take this to a mobile device

well what we're going to do is get rid

of all these buttons

and just make a giant screen

a giant screen

now

how are we going to communicate this we

don't want to carry around a mouse right

so what are we going to do

oh a stylist right we're going to use a

stylus

no

now

who wants a stylist

you have to get them and put them away

and you lose them yuck

nobody wants a stylus so let's not use a

stylus

we're going to use the best pointing

device in the world we're going to use a

pointing device that we're all born with

we're born with ten of them we're gonna

use our fingers

we're gonna touch this with our fingers

and we have invented a new technology

called multi-touch

which is phenomenal

it works like magic

you don't need a stylus

it's far more accurate than any touch

display that's ever been shipped

it ignores unintended touches it's super

smart

you can do multi-finger gestures on it

and boy have we patented it
so

so

we've been very lucky

to have brought a few revolutionary user

interfaces to the market in our time

first was the mouse

the second

was the click wheel and now

we're going to bring multi-touch to the

market

and each of these revolutionary user

interfaces has made possible

a revolutionary product the mac the ipod

and now the iphone

so a revolutionary user interface we're

going to build on top of that

with software now software on mobile

phones

is like
it's like baby software

it's not so powerful

and today

we're going to show you a software

breakthrough software that's at least

five years ahead of what's on any other
phone now how do we do this well we

start

with a strong foundation

iphone runs os 10.

now

why

why would we want to run such a

sophisticated operating system on a

mobile device well because it's got

everything we need

it's got multitasking it's got the best

networking it already knows how to power

manage we've been doing this on mobile

computers for years it's got awesome

security and the right apps

it's got everything from coco and the

graphics and it's got core animation

built in and it's got the audio and

video that os 10 is famous for it's got

all the stuff we want and it's built

right in to iphone and that has let us

create desktop class applications and

networking

right

not the crippled stuff that you find on

most phones this is real desktop class

applications

now you know

one of the pioneers of our industry

allen k has had a lot of great quotes

throughout the years and i ran across

one of them recently

that explains how we look at this

explains why we go about doing things

the way we do because we love software

and here's the quote

people who are really serious about

software should make their own hardware

you know

alan said this 30 years ago

and this is how we feel about it and so

we're bringing breakthrough software to

a mobile device for the first time it's

five years ahead of anything on any

other phone
---------------------------------------------
secrets-of-life
---------------------------------------------------
the thing i would say is

when you grow up you tend to get told

that the world is the way it is and your

your life is just to live your life

inside the world try not to bash into

the walls too much uh

try to have a nice family life have fun

save a little money

but life

that's a very limited life life can be

much broader once you discover one

simple fact

and that is everything around you that

you call life

was made up by people that were no

smarter than you

and you can change it you can influence

it you can you can build your own things

that other people can use

and the minute that you understand that

you can poke life and actually something

will you know if you push in something

will pop out the other side that you can

you can change you can mold it

um

that's maybe the most important thing

is to shake off this uh

this uh erroneous notion that life is

is there and you're just gonna live in

it

versus embrace it change it improve it

make your mark upon it

um

i i think that's very important and

however you learn that once you learn it

you'll want to

change life and make it better because

it's kind of messed up in a lot of ways

once you learn that you'll never be the

same again

--------------------------------
on-failure
----------------------------------

now I've actually always found something

that to be very true which is most

people don't get those experiences

because they'd never asked I've never

found anybody that didn't want to help

me if I asked them for help I always

call him up I called up this will date

me but I called up Bill Hewlett when I

was 12 years old and he lived in Palo

Alto his number was still in a phonebook

and he answered the phone himself you

know yes hi I'm Steve Jobs I'm 12 years

old I'm a student in high school and I

want to build a frequency counter and I

was wondering if you had any spare parts

I could have and he laughed and he gave

me the spare parts to build his

frequency counter and he gave me a job

that summer in Hewlett Packard working

on the assembly line putting nuts and

bolts together on frequency counters he

got me a job in the place that built him

and I was in heaven and I've never found

anyone who said no or hung up the phone

when I call I just asked and when people

ask me I try to be as responsive to pay

that that debt of gratitude back most

people never pick up the phone and call

most people never ask and that's what

separates sometimes the people that do

things from the people that just dream

about them you got it you got to act and

you've got to be willing to fail you've

got to be willing to crash and burn you

know with people on the phone with

starting a company with whatever if

you're afraid of failing you won't get

very far

you
-------------------------------------------------
get-much-simpler
------------------------------------------
good morning who we're up til three

o'clock last night finishing this

advertising up and I want to show it to

you in a minute

see what you think of it I've I've been

back about eight to ten weeks and we've

been working really hard and what we're

trying to do is is not something really

highfalutin we're trying to get back to

the basics we're trying to get back to

the basics of great products great

marketing and great distribution and I

think that that Apple has has pockets of

greatness but in some ways has drifted

away from from doing the basics really

well so we started with the product line

we looked at the product roadmap going

out for a few years and we said a lot of

this doesn't make sense and it's way too

much stuff and there's not enough focus

and so we actually got rid of 70% of the

stuff in the product roadmap I mean I

couldn't even figure out the damn

product line after a few weeks I kept

saying what is this model has this fit

and I started talking to customers and

they couldn't figure it out either and

so you're gonna see the product line get

much simpler and you're gonna see the

product line get much better and there's

some new stuff coming out that's

incredibly nice in addition we've been

able to focus a lot more on the 30% of

the gems and add some new stuff in that

it's gonna take us in some whole new

directions so we are incredibly excited

about the products and I think we're

we're really thinking differently about

the kinds of products we have to build

and the engineering team is incredibly

excited I mean I came out of the meeting

with people that had just gotten their

projects cancelled and they were they

were three feet off the ground with

excitement because they finally

understood where the heck we were going

and they were really excited about the

strategy in the same way we I think have

not been as we have not kept up with

innovations in our distribution well I

give you an example I'm sure was talked

about this morning but you know we've

got anywhere from from two

three months of inventory in our

manufacturing supplier pipeline and

about an equal amount in our

distribution channel pipeline so we're

having to make guesses for five six

months in advance about what the

customer wants and we're not smart

enough to do that I think I smart enough

to do that so what we're gonna do is get

really simple and start taking inventory

out of those pipelines so we can let the

customer tell us what we what they want

and we can respond to it superfast and

you're gonna see us to be doing a lot of

things like that today's is just the

first of many things we're going to be

doing with you so we're going to be not

only I think catching up to where the

best of the best are in distribution but

we're gonna actually be innovating and

be breaking some new ground I think in

the coming several months and I'm pretty

excited about that as well

in the distribution manufacturing side

of things and that gets us to the

marketing side of things to me Marketing

is about values this is a very

complicated world it's a very noisy

world and we're not gonna get a chance

to get people to remember much about us

no company is and so we have to be

really clear on what we want them to

know about us now Apple fortunately is

one of the half-a-dozen best brands in

the whole world right up there with Nike

Disney Coke Sony it is one of the greats

of the greats not just in this country

but all around the globe

and but but but even a great brand needs

investment and caring if it's going to

retain its relevance and vitality and

the Apple brand has clearly suffered

from neglect in this area in the last

few years and we need to bring it back

the way to do that is not to talk about

speeds and feeds it's not to talk about

MIPS and megahertz it's not to talk

about why we're better than Windows the

dairy industry tried for 20 years to

convince you that milk was good for you

it's a lie but they tried anyway and the

sales were going like this and then they

tried got milk and the sales have gone

like this got milk doesn't even talk

about the product metric that focuses on

the absence of the product but but but

the best example of all and and one of

the greatest jobs of marketing and

though if the universe has ever seen as

Nike remember Nike sells a commodity

they sell shoes and yet when you think

of Nike you feel something different

than a shoe company in their ads as you

know they don't ever talk about the

products they don't ever tell you about

their air soles and why they're better

than Reeboks air soles what is Nike

doing they're advertising they they

honor great athletes and they honor

great athletics that's who they are

that's what they are about Apple spends

a fortune on advertising you'd never

know it you never know
------------------------------------
business-model
-----------------------------
my model of business is the Beatles you

know there were four very talented guys

who who kept each other's kind of

negative tendencies in check they

balanced each other and and and the sum

was greater than the total was greater

than the sum of the parts and that's how

I see business you know great great

things in business are never done by one

person they're done by it they're done

by a team of people the Beatles when

they were together they did truly

brilliant innovative work and when they

split up they did good work but it was

it it was never the same and I I see

business that way too it's really always

a team apples an incredibly

collaborative company one person is in

charge of iPhone OS software one person

is in charge of Mac hardware one person

is in charge of iPhone hardware

engineering another person is in charge

of worldwide marketing another person is

in charge of operations we all meet for

three hours once a week and we talk

about everything we're doing the whole

business and there's tremendous teamwork

at the top of the company which filters

down to tremendous teamwork throughout

the company and teamwork is dependent on

trusting the other folks to come through

with their part without watching them

all the time but trusting that they're

going to come through with their parts

and that's what we do really well and

we're great at figuring out how to

divide things up into these great teams

that we have and all work on the same

thing touch bases frequently and bring

it all together into a product we do

that really well and so what I do all

day is meet with teams of people and

work on ideas and solve problems to make

new products to make new marketing

programs whatever it is and our people

willing to tell you you're wrong yeah I

mean other than snarky journalists I

mean people are ya know we have

wonderful arguments and do you win them

all or oh no I wish I did

Oh see you can't if you want to hire

great people and have them stay working

for you you have to let them make a lot

of decisions and you have to you have to

be run by ideas not hierarchy the best

ideas have to win so otherwise good

people don't stay but you must be more

than a facilitator who runs meetings you

obviously contribute your own ideas I

contribute ideas sure well why would I

be there if I didn't you've got to be

you've got to be a really good talent

scout because no matter how smart you

are you need a team of great people and

you've got to figure out how to have a

size people up fairly quickly make

decisions without knowing people too

well and hire them and you know see how

you do and refine your intuition and be

able to to help you know build an

organization that can eventually just

you know build itself because you need

great people around you Steve Jobs once

said that creativity is just connecting

things he meant that people with a broad

set of experiences can often see things

that others miss jobs often connected

ideas from completely different fields

for example he studied calligraphy in

college calligraphy had no practical

application to his life but he was

interested in it he was passionate about

it later his calligraphy experience

would find its way into the Mac the

first computer with beautiful fonts &

typeface creativity is connecting things

from different fields think visually

there were very few words on a Steve

Jobs slide that's a philosophy called

picture superiority it simply means that

people are more likely to remember

information when it's presented as words

and pictures instead of just words alone